so we're going to kick off by having a
look at the problem so we're going to
build a class which is describing a
person and later on we're going to put
that in an address book so if we have a
look at the CRC card or rather the class
diagram card for this this is kind of
what I've come up with okay as part of
my design process for working this out
so we've got a person class and it's got
a bunch of attributes okay it's go first
name which is a string certainly when
she's destroying date of birth which is
fing emails which is an array and then
phone numbers which is an array and then
we've got a few methods here which we
want to be able to call on instances of
this there's full name which should
return a string there's an email which
takes a string which is email address
and adds it to this emails array and
then we've got the same thing for add
phone and then we've got this print
details method which we want to return
undefined but the workshop will show you
what that should do under the hood later
on and then down the bottom I've got the
constructor which we want to take in a
first name which is a string a surname
which is a string and a date of birth
which is also string so the constructor
takes in three arguments all of which is
strings now this isn't quite all the
requirements because there is one
additional requirement which is that
when we pass stuff into this constructor
if we don't capitalize the first letter
of the first name we want that to be
capitalized when it's stored in this
first name attribute here
so that's like another requirement
that's like not not described on here
but this is like a good starting point
for working out how are we going to do
this and what I tend to do when we've
got a problem like this
is come up with like a vague plan for
implementing this and I often just write
this in the readme so I'm like what
stuff do we need to do here so for me we
want to start off probably by just doing
the constructor so that's like basic
stuff we want to do the constructor and
then we want to check that it that it
worked and then because we're kind of
dealing with constructor II stuff maybe
we want to look at capitalizing that
first name
so that's that other requirement which
we've worked out right we want to
capitalize the first name when it's
passed into the constructor and then the
third thing we want to do is implement
this full name function so we'll worry
about how to do that when we get to it
and then finally we want to implement
this emails thing okay so we want to add
this emails attribute and we also want
to add this add email method so emails
and add email cool and the other stuff
we'll leave for now we'll come back to
that and add to our plan when we get a
little bit further on so if we have a
look at this first thing here right we
need to implement a person class and
then we need to implement a constructor
which is described on our card so we're
going to start off by creating a test
for that because we're doing TDD so I'm
just gonna come over here and make a new
file called person dark test dot
JavaScript and this is going to be our
test for the for the person class it's
kind of usual when you're doing this
stuff to name these files after the
class that we're that we're dealing with
so if our test if I class school person
the test should be called person test
ojs and the actual model with the class
should be called person j/s and then in
here we need to do some stuff we need to
bring in chai and we need to kind of set
up our person right so I'm going to
start off by just bringing in China
and then I'm just going to set up
another thing called expect this is what
we saw yesterday
it just means that we we'd have the
called chai don't expect everywhere we
can just go just call expect and then
we're going to kind of describe our
person thing so we're going to get
described lock I'm using es6 arrow
functions here just to make it a bit
easier so this is kind of where we're
going to describe I want to work and
this is the point at which we should
start actually thinking about like how
do we want to design this thing so we
want a test for this first bit over here
this constructor so we can write a test
for that saying something like it should
initialize properly and then in here we
need to start thinking like how do you
want this to work and I think for now I
want to basically be able to create a
new person and we'll stick in a variable
called person and we know already that
we want it to be able to take three
parameters okay if we have a look at
this we can see it needs to take a first
name a surname and a date of birth all
of which are strings so we can kind of
simulate that so we just make someone up
like Joe Bloggs and let's pass in I
don't know first of Jan 1990 as the date
of birth so that's kind of this is how
we want this bit to work should be
capital right and then when you think
about like what what stuff should it
return so if we've created this
correctly we should be able to now say
person dot first-name and we should be
able to get back like their first name
which is going to be Joe in this case so
we need to turn this into an expectation
so we can use choice syntax to say that
we expect person dot first-name to equal
Joe so that kind of makes sense right
we're setting up this thing using
constructor and then we expect to be
able to look at the first name attribute
and that'll be set to Joe and then we
expect me out to do the same thing with
surname but we expect that to be blogs
and then we expect me I'll do the same
thing with date of birth and we expect
that to be first of June 1990 and that's
you'll probably do for now like that's
enough that's enough setup stuff this
checks the constructor works properly
and it checks that we can call these
attributes and they've been set properly
by that constructor so if we run that
test we get some failures which makes
sense person is not defined so we need
to come up here and define our person
we're going to require this in from
another file which we haven't created
yet so we want to require this person in
from the models folder and we want it to
be called person dot J s and now if I
run these tests we'll get an error and
it's a big ugly error but at the top it
says cannot find module models personage
is oppression dot yes let's fix that
cool
and that's gonna create the fire yet so
it makes sense that you can't find this
this person is so if we head over here
and we actually create a file in here
called person is hope you won't run the
test now it'll find the file but we'll
get a different error back saying person
is not a constructor which makes sense
so we need to create that and then we
need to export it hopefully we run the
test now we get another error assertion
error expected undefined to equal Joe
and that's because the the constructor
we don't have a constructor yet so it
doesn't set things up properly so we
need to make a constructor so we can do
that with the keyword constructor and we
know that we want this to take three
things okay it's going to take a first
name a surname and a date of birth and
then what we want to do in here is we
want to assign each of these to a
property on the current object and we
can get the current object with this so
if we say this dot first-name equals
first-name and if we just to placate
that a couple of times and then do the
same for surname and date of birth
hopefully if we run these tests well
you've got an error first name is not
defined called that's a test catching a
an error in my typing should be first
name with capital n and there we are
we've got a working test so that's like
that's the first bit of our requirements
done right we've written a test which
describes the constructor and then
checks that we can access the right
stuff so the next thing that we need to
look at is capitalizing the first name
from that requirement so what we want to
happen is that if we pass in like a
lowercase letter here we want it to
capitalize it when it assigns it
to this attribute inside the object so I
feel like we should write another test
for this okay so I'm just going to copy
and paste this test down here and I'm
going to change the name to say it
should capitalize the first name and
then we want to create a new person in
exactly the same way as we did before
but this time we're going to not
capitalize the first name so we'll have
like a mean other and what we expect to
come back is that the first name has
been capitalized so we don't care about
the East we don't care about testing
that the surname any what's ur name or
anything about date of birth we just
care about this turning Amy with a
lowercase a into Amy with an uppercase a
when it's stored so this is like a
really small little test that tests this
particular bit of functionality and if
we run the test now we get a failing
test right we actually got back Amy with
a lower case and we wanted to get back
Amy with an upper case so how do we deal
with this in our implementation well we
know that we want to do something here
because we're getting in Amy with a
lowercase a here in this first name and
then before we assign it to the property
to the attribute of this object we want
to capitalize it so we want to do
something here like I know capitalized
we will do something like this right so
that it capitalizes that whatever that
string is before it puts it in first
night how do we capitalize stuff in
JavaScript well I had no idea how did I
find that out I googled it and it turns
out that the easiest way to do it which
is not particularly easy is like this so
all that's happening here is we're
taking the first name we're getting the
first character from it and we're
turning that to uppercase and then we're
adding that string to the first name and
this slice thing basically chops off the
first character so like if you want to
see how that works
I can jump into a console
right and if we've got a string like
Danny and we call dot slice with a 1 it
will top off the first letter and if we
call char at 0 that'll get the character
at the 0 position which is just going to
be a deep and so we can call on that to
uppercase which capitalizes it and kind
of by joining these two things together
like this bit and this bit we get a
string with a capitalized name so now
we've got that in let's check see if
we've broken anything and we have them
so we haven't broken the initialized
thing we haven't broken that first test
that's still working and now we have
another test which is checking for that
capitalization thing cool
so we've checked off these first two
things in here which is kind of cool
what we need to do now is look at this
full name method so what we want this to
do we want to be able to call a method
called full name and have that returned
like the full name of the person so
either Joe Bloggs or a mean other so we
should write tests for that it should
return a four name and then we want to
create a person in the same way as we
did before let's let's pick Joe Boggs
for now so we're just going to create a
person object for this test and then
what we want to do is we want to check
we want to say we we basically want to
be able to call person doc full name and
have that returned like Joe Bloggs for
us so we need to turn this into an
assertion which we can do in the same
way we've come to expect from here so we
want to expect person dot full name to
equal
this string here so what do we think is
going to happen if we run this think
about for a second what person dot for
name going to return at the moment is it
going to return anything let's have a
look so we've got pretty sensible error
right person dot full name is not
function which is not because we haven't
defined it if we come over to our person
to s there's no full name function so to
fix this we need to define it and what
we want this to do we want it to return
the first name plus the space plus the
second name so we could try doing ok
first this dot first name which will
gets the first name plus a space plus
this dot surname let's see if this works
cool
expected undefined to equal Joe Bloggs
so you're probably shouting at me now
like what was what's going on here is
because we haven't actually returned
anything from this function so we need
to put return in here and now if we try
running the tests we've got a green test
awesome so looks like we're good for
this we've ticked off another bit of
what we need to do so the last thing we
need to do is deal with this emails
thing so what we want to be able to do
we want to be able to call person emails
and get back an array of all of their
different email addresses because people
can have more than one email address and
in order to add emails we want to
implement a method called add email
which takes a string and we want that to
add the email to to the array of emails
so the first thing we probably want to
do is come and set up that emails
attribute so I'm just going to come up
to this initialize test that we've
already written and I want to check that
when we create a new person by default
we can call person dot emails and it
will give us an empty array because they
don't have any emails yet so we can do
that with another expectation expect
person dot emails 2deep equal
and empty right I'm using deep here
because we're comparing arrays and we
kind of just need to do that so if I run
these now we'll get a failure because we
expected this array and actually calling
emails returns undefined because we
haven't got a property for that so we
want to fix that head over to here and
set up this stock emails but because
we're not passing anything in from the
constructor here we actually just want
to always set this to an empty array
that we can put our emails in later on
so we can just set this to a plain empty
array and that's going to mean whenever
we create a new person it's going to get
the first name surname and date of birth
from the stuff we passed into the
constructor but the emails is just
always going to be set as an empty array
hopefully if we run the tests we get a
green test again and this is kind of
worth thinking about here that just
because we've written a test doesn't
mean that we shouldn't go back later as
we get more requirements and start
adding more stuff to our classes and
change that test that we've already
written it's totally fine to do that
that's just a part of the process of
building out software so the last thing
that we're looking at then we've kind of
done this bit this emails a tribute but
we want to have this add emails method
and that needs to take a string and it
needs to then add that string to to the
emails all right so we need to write a
test for that so we can say it should
accept new emails and then right
and then inside here we've got to create
a new person just like we did before and
now we need to kind of design how do you
want this to work right so we want to be
able to call person dot add email and we
want to be able to pass in a string to
this so let's just pick some emails for
Joe Bloggs here maybe Joe example.com
and then just to be doubly sure this
like works with multiple emails I'm just
going to add a second email so maybe
like Joe dot blogs like work example.com
and then what we want to do is we want
to have an assertion here which checks
that having done this and run this add
email method a couple of times when we
call person dot emails we get back an
array which has got these two these two
emails in it so we want to get back an
array that kind of looks like this yeah
so we need to just wrap it up in an
assertion
so we're just saying we expect when we
call persons or emails now that we've
done this stuff to be deeply equal to
this array here okay so let's try
running that and we get a failure person
don't add email is not a function which
is what we expect so let's go ahead and
add that so there's the function that'll
get rid of this problem for us and now
we got a new problem which is that we're
getting back an empty array rather than
the array we expected which was having
these two emails in it and that's
because we haven't really done much in
in here at all so we need to change this
so that we actually add whatever email
is passed in here so whatever gets
passed in we need to add it into this
array here so how do we add stuff to an
array we can do that with push and we
need to put in the email that's been
passed in so when this runs what it's
going to do is take an email in here and
it's then going to push that email into
the array okay because this thought
email is going to return that emails
array and hopefully when we run the test
now we've got green tests
so the last thing that we might want to
do here is go and look to do a bit of
refactoring looking at this I kind of
don't think there's any obvious
refactoring that we need to do maybe we
want to pull this thing out into into a
function or something but I think for me
this isn't too complicated so this is
probably cool as it is there's a little
bit of refactoring we could do with a
test but we're not really that yet we're
going to save that for some other time
one of the things I want to highlight
though look how much code we've got in
our person class like 18 lines it's not
loads and then look how much code we've
got in our tests like 40 lines and this
is quite normal right to end up with a
lot more test code than you have
production code because the tests are
necessarily more verbose they've got a
whole bunch of real life details in them
and there is some stuff we can do to
tidy this up but like if you find
yourself feeling like you're writing on
a lot of tests or a lot of test code
compared to the amount of production
code you're writing that's fine because
writing unit test is part of writing
good code in general cool